Hello J2ObjC
============


Overview
--------
Sample project for getting started with J2ObjC.

Uses [IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/), [J2ObjC](http://j2objc.org/),
[j2objc-gradle](https://github.com/j2objc-contrib/j2objc-gradle),
and [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/).

The philosophy here is to create an ObjC STATIC LIBRARY from Java source code.
Then AFTER the J2ObjC transpilation works, import the created library into Xcode.
--model-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.models --api-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.store.api
(There are many other ways to work with J2ObjC, you can, for example, have Xcode build your
Java files on the fly, or have your Java project create a Cocoapod via j2objc-gradle,
but for a clear understanding and clean path this project favors the static library approach.)

Auto-Generated Service Clients
--------

*TODO* Instead of using a fork, we should be using a custom generator module, but the Java generator is pretty complex,
so we would have to port a decent ammount of the abstract generator code any way. For now, just use a fork.

This project uses a forked version of Swagger Codegen that generates a custom
Reactive Service Client from any valid Open Api spec. This code has minimal 3rd party dependencies,
and NO platform specific dependencies, and is designed to be highly platform independent (read: able to be translated by J2Objc).
The intention is to be able to auto generate the the majority of Service Client, DTO mapping code, Unit tests, and JavaDocs
and subsequently encapsulate them in the transpiled J2ObjC library.

This code will use GSON, RxJava, and JUnit.

To generate this code, use the custom java "library" option ```rx-abstract-httpclient-gson``` which
will auto-generate this platform-independent code. The generated project will include:

*Generic Logic*
- ApiClient - Generic Api Client with things like serialization, deserialization, and passes ApiRequest/ApiResponse objects
back and forth via the generic HttpClient interface.

- Generic Api Classes. ApiException, ApiRequest, ApiResponse for use in your Native HttpClient implementation

*Your API-Specific Logic* (generated based on provided) Open API spec
- Api Classes (PetApi, UserApi, etc.) for individual REST resources. These contain the Api-Specific endpoint building,
DTO mapping logic, parameter validation, post-processing, etc.
- Api Test Bases (Observer/Subscriber and Param Skeletons) that you can manually flesh out with business logic/validation tests.
- Model/DTO Classes. Which the ApiClient will automatically serialize from an ApiRequest or deserialize from an ApiResponse.

*HTTP Clients*
- (Interface) The HTTPClient is simply an very simple interface to be defined and injected by the Native consumer of the APIs.
- (Optional) A Super-Basic Default HttpClient Implementation for example purposes. *(note this is NOT platform independent,
and cannot be compiled with J2ObjC)*

*Build Files*
- Gradle build file
- Maven build file

Along with the typical Swagger Codegen Options such as Documentation, etc.

1 Clone the Swagger Fork from: [https://github.com/kaylarose/swagger-codegen/tree/rx-abstract-http-client-generator]()
2 Build Swagger Codegen with the following:
```
cd swagger-codegen
mvn clean package
```
3 Generate Code
Then you can use the new generator via the following command:
```
java -jar modules/swagger-codegen-cli/target/swagger-codegen-cli.jar generate \
-i http://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json -l java \
-o ../petstore-swagger-output --library=rx-abstract-httpclient-gson \
--model-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.models \
--api-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.store.api \
-DuseRxJava=true -DgenerateDefaultHttpClient=true
```

The following templates are included in the Swagger Fork:
- api.mustache
- api_test.mustache
- ApiClient.mustache
- ApiResponse.mustache
- ApiException.mustache
- ApiRequest.mustache
- build.gradle.mustache
- build.sbt.mustache
- HttpClient.mustache
- HttpClientUtils.mustache
- JSONSerializer.mustache
- OkHttpServiceClient.mustache (Optional Default HttpClient impl)
- Pair.mustache
- pom.mustache
- auth/ApiKeyAuth.mustache
- auth/Authentication.mustache
- auth/HttpBasicAuth.mustache
- auth/OAuth.mustache

To override the code generated by the Abstract Codegen, you can create a local directory with a copy of each template,
and modify to suit your needs. Then use the ```-t``` option in Swagger Codegen to point at your local template directory.

```
java -jar modules/swagger-codegen-cli/target/swagger-codegen-cli.jar generate \
-i http://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json -l java \
-o ../swagger-retro --library=rx-abstract-httpclient-gson \
--model-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.models \
--api-package com.pets.core.petstore.data.store.api \
-DuseRxJava=true -DgenerateDefaultHttpClient=true \
-t /Users/kamartin/Desktop/Spikes/j2Objc/Hello-J2ObjC/core/templates/abstract-rx-swagger
```

Using Make to Transpile Dependencies
--------

Using Make to Transpile Core Code
--------

Setup JAVA Project and run J2ObjC
----------------------------------

The first part is to get a plain Java project with J2ObjC support working (no XCode involved, yet).

* Download and unpack J2ObjC somewhere logical.
* Make sure J2ObjC works (```cd <J2OBJC_HOME>``` >  ```j2objc -version```).
* Clone this repo.
* Import this project into IDEA (the main project is plain Java), import EXTERNAL MODEL -> GRADLE.
* Edit local.properties and set j2objc.home to the correct path (your local install).
* Once you have the Hello-J2OBJC project in IDEA, and local.properties, run ```gradle build```!

This should succeed and create *build/j2objcOutputs* and *build/binaries* and *build/packedBinaries*, etc.

Examine the transpiled Objective-C files at *build/j2objcOutputs/src/main/objc*.

Original Java source is at *src/main/java*.


Setup Xcode and Include Static Library
---------------------------------------

The second part is to use the static library you created in Xcode with an iOS project.

See the [ios/README.md](./ios/README.md).



